---
layout: post
title: Delightful Test::Unit results with TURN 
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). Octo 29 2009 - Los Angeles

There is something about nice output that makes you feel good inside.  Like the guarantee written on the outside of a box, a green characters are reassuring.  I rather like Test::Unit as well.  It has a certain moral rigidity to it, not entirely dissimilar to Batman's.  When I use rspec I feel like the kid who always had to change his controller settings before his turn to play Mortal Kombat.  So ... to spice up the Test::Unit output there are some solutions in the world today.    

*1. The gems*

There is a great turn gem -- Test::Unit Reporter (New).  As the readme notes, if you also install the facets gem turn will produce colored output. 

{%highlight ruby%}

  sudo gem install facets
  sudo gem install turn
{%endhighlight%}

You can check out the turn repo here: <a href="http://github.com/TwP/turn">http://github.com/TwP/turn</a>

*2. Add a quick require to your test/test_helper.rb*
Since we're running rails tests you want to add the folowing line to test/test_helper.rb to require turn.

{%highlight ruby%}

begin; require 'turn'; rescue LoadError; end
{%endhighlight%}

*3. A little more color*

While turn is great by default I kind of like a little more color to help distinguish meaning quickly.  For example you can dig into the gem and add a line to TestRunner.t_test_started in lib/turn.rb:

{%highlight ruby%}

	file = COLORIZE ? ::ANSICode.yellow(file) : file	
{%endhighlight%}

*4.  Removing a little excess information*
  Test::Unit::UI::Console::TestRunner likes to ramble about which suite it is loading at various times.  So in the same file as above, lib/turn.rb you can redefine setup_mediator to not display superfluous output.  Just add:
  
{%highlight ruby%}
  
private
def setup_mediator
  @mediator = create_mediator(@suite)
  suite_name = @suite.to_s
  if ( @suite.kind_of?(Module) )
    suite_name = @suite.name
  end
  output("\n")#put some undetermined formatting preference here.
end
{%endhighlight%}

*5.  Getting rails to shut the hell up*

In your rails directory, whether it be in a gem or vendor, you'll want to make a slight change to */lib/tasks/testing.rake*.  If you're using vim, you might use :%s/t.verbose = true/t.verbose = false/g to replace true with false when setting Rake::TestTask.verbose.

*5.  A little more lipstick on the pig*


